README.md, before:

# FinTech Case Study: Diem Payment System (*formerly known as Libra*) 
![alt text](https://media.itpro.co.uk//image/private/s--uxEpf0sS--/t_primary-image-desktop@2/v1571757649/itpro/2019/10/facebook_libra_cryptocurrency_shutterstock.jpg)

## Overview of Diem 

   Diem is a project that was proposed by Facebook Inc. in 2018. It is intended to use blockchain technology to create a Digital payment system that is accessible and affordable for everyone. It is currently still under development and is reportedly set to launch to the public in January 2021 (Pymnts, 2019). The first media reports related to the launch of Diem were announced in June 2019 (Constine, 2019).

   Head of Facebook Financial,David Marcus, was formerly leading the Diem  project when it was first announced. In light of increasing regulatory scrutiny and the negative press and distrust surrounding Facebook and data privacy concerns, Stuart Levey, former Chief Legal Officer for HSBC Holdings, was appointed as CEO in May 2020 (Libra Association, 2020). This appointment was reported as a move to show that the Diem project is independent from Facebook, and an attempt to get regulatory approvals prior to launching  in January 2021 (Kastrenakes, 2020). Levey has extensive background in the regulatory environment having served in the U.S. Department of the Treasury and for implementing and enforcing all U.S. civil anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing laws by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) (Libra Association, 2020).



**Origins of Diem**

   The idea for Diem stemmed from the grim reality that roughly 1.7 billion people in the world do not have access to banking infrastructure or financial services, despite many of them having a mobile phone (Spilka, 2020). Diem was created to provide a solution for a large proportion of this ‘unbanked’ population by enabling ‘instantaneous, low-cost, highly secure transactions’ outside of traditional banking and using blockchain technology (Kastrenakes, 2020). 

   Although Diem was proposed by Facebook, it is funded by an independent membership organization known as ‘The Diem Association’. The Association comprises of members from various businesses, nonprofit organizations and academic institutions distributed all around the world. The initial investment for funding and membership into the association is a minimum of US $10 million. Existing members include: Coinbase, Lyft, Shopify, and Uber Technologies, just to name a few. Facebook also has a stake, which is reported to be less than 10% of overall funding. Members also receive one voting right, enabling them to have decision-making power in how the project is being developed and executed, including overseeing and coordinating the technical design of the Diem network (libra.org, 2020). 


## Business Activities 

**The Diem Challenge and Solution**

   The goal of the Diem payment system (which includes the Diem cryptocurrency coin, digital wallet ‘Novi’ and blockchain) is to provide global access to safe and affordable financial services (Kastrenakes, 2020). According to the [Diem website](https://www.diem.com/en-us/), Diem is looking to solve the following financial problems:

- 1.7 billion people are currently ‘unbanked’ 
- For those who do have access to financial services, cross border payments are slow, taking an average 3-5 business days to complete
- Sending and receiving money internationally comes at a high cost (at an average cost of 7% per transaction of money sent) and these costs are higher for the poorer population  
- The world still runs on cash (85% of  global transactions use cash) 
- Cash can be hard to move and is prone to theft (U.S. retail business lose $40 billion annually) 


The solution that Diem provides is intended to address a global audience, which is to provide financial inclusion, driven by the use of blockchain technology and digital financial services. Furthermore, according to its website, Diem was created based on the belief that “global, open, instant and low-cost payment networks create immense economic opportunities and more commerce across the world”(Diem White Paper, 2020). Although the system has not yet launched, their projected market size is estimated at 100-150 million users (Sandner, 2019). However, with increasing adoption of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology, this number is expected to be larger upon launch. 

**Diem Technology**

  Diem’s digital payment system uses an open-source blockchain and comprises of their own Diem cryptocurrency or ‘Diem Coin’. At a high level, blockchain  technology “can safely store transaction records on a peer-to-peer network instead of storing them in a single location. Independent servers around the world, called nodes, make up the network that operates the blockchain”. The Diem Blockchain has been built from the ground up, using a new programming language called “Move”. Move is designed to be highly secure and to comply with regulatory requirements. With the foundation of the Libra blockchain in place, the Diem Coins will be backed by a financial reserve of assets made up of cash or cash equivalents and very short-term government securities”. Diem coins will enable users who hold the coin to purchase everyday goods and services, transfer coins to other users, or convert the Diem coins into local currency, all of which work to enable efficient cross-border settlements (Diem, 2020). 

## Landscape

**The History of Blockchain: Trends and Innovations in the Last Decade**

  Blockchain technology has seen major growth and adoption in the last decade. An article in the Harvard Business Review - A Brief History of Blockchain - does a fantastic job of summing up five of the latest innovations associated with blockchain in the last ten years. The first and most notable blockchain innovation was the creation of Bitcoin. Despite a ton of market volatility in the last few years, today the market cap of Bitcoin hovers around USD $350 billion (Gupta, 2017). 

   A second innovation, which comes as a surprise to those who are not in the industry, is that blockchain can be used for a variety of other needs, not just for cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. Applications of blockchain beyond cryptocurrency include “proof-of-location, healthcare, and decentralized voting” (Ali et al. 2018). These are made possible given given the nature of how blockchain actually works; with the use of cryptographic puzzles, proof-of-work and a digital ledger of transactions that is considered to be immutable (Ali et al., 2018). 

Three additional innovations include:

- the development of smart contracts which allow financial instruments, like loans or bonds to be represented on the blockchain
- The concept of a “proof of stake” which would streamline the existing “proof of work” model; moving away from vast data centres and large amounts of computing power, to be replaced by complex financial instruments 
- And finally, simplifying the transaction validation process (known as ‘blockchain scaling’) that eliminates the need to have all computers in the network processing transactions, but rather focusing on the actual number of computers necessary to process transactions. This would be a a time saver as the existing process is slow.


- testlist
    - test sublist
    - test **bold**
    - test *italics*

Commit message:

add sections up to measuring success

README.md, after:

# FinTech Case Study: Diem Payment System (*formerly known as Libra*) 
![alt text](https://media.itpro.co.uk//image/private/s--uxEpf0sS--/t_primary-image-desktop@2/v1571757649/itpro/2019/10/facebook_libra_cryptocurrency_shutterstock.jpg)

## Overview of Diem 

   Diem is a project that was proposed by Facebook Inc. in 2018. It is intended to use blockchain technology to create a Digital payment system that is accessible and affordable for everyone. It is currently still under development and is reportedly set to launch to the public in January 2021 (Pymnts, 2019). The first media reports related to the launch of Diem were announced in June 2019 (Constine, 2019).

   Head of Facebook Financial,David Marcus, was formerly leading the Diem  project when it was first announced. In light of increasing regulatory scrutiny and the negative press and distrust surrounding Facebook and data privacy concerns, Stuart Levey, former Chief Legal Officer for HSBC Holdings, was appointed as CEO in May 2020 (Libra Association, 2020). This appointment was reported as a move to show that the Diem project is independent from Facebook, and an attempt to get regulatory approvals prior to launching  in January 2021 (Kastrenakes, 2020). Levey has extensive background in the regulatory environment having served in the U.S. Department of the Treasury and for implementing and enforcing all U.S. civil anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing laws by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) (Libra Association, 2020).



**Origins of Diem**

   The idea for Diem stemmed from the grim reality that roughly 1.7 billion people in the world do not have access to banking infrastructure or financial services, despite many of them having a mobile phone (Spilka, 2020). Diem was created to provide a solution for a large proportion of this ‘unbanked’ population by enabling ‘instantaneous, low-cost, highly secure transactions’ outside of traditional banking and using blockchain technology (Kastrenakes, 2020). 

   Although Diem was proposed by Facebook, it is funded by an independent membership organization known as ‘The Diem Association’. The Association comprises of members from various businesses, nonprofit organizations and academic institutions distributed all around the world. The initial investment for funding and membership into the association is a minimum of US $10 million. Existing members include: Coinbase, Lyft, Shopify, and Uber Technologies, just to name a few. Facebook also has a stake, which is reported to be less than 10% of overall funding. Members also receive one voting right, enabling them to have decision-making power in how the project is being developed and executed, including overseeing and coordinating the technical design of the Diem network (libra.org, 2020). 


## Business Activities 

**The Diem Challenge and Solution**

   The goal of the Diem payment system (which includes the Diem cryptocurrency coin, digital wallet ‘Novi’ and blockchain) is to provide global access to safe and affordable financial services (Kastrenakes, 2020). According to the [Diem website](https://www.diem.com/en-us/), Diem is looking to solve the following financial problems:

- 1.7 billion people are currently ‘unbanked’ 
- For those who do have access to financial services, cross border payments are slow, taking an average 3-5 business days to complete
- Sending and receiving money internationally comes at a high cost (at an average cost of 7% per transaction of money sent) and these costs are higher for the poorer population  
- The world still runs on cash (85% of  global transactions use cash) 
- Cash can be hard to move and is prone to theft (U.S. retail business lose $40 billion annually) 


The solution that Diem provides is intended to address a global audience, which is to provide financial inclusion, driven by the use of blockchain technology and digital financial services. Furthermore, according to its website, Diem was created based on the belief that “global, open, instant and low-cost payment networks create immense economic opportunities and more commerce across the world”(Diem White Paper, 2020). Although the system has not yet launched, their projected market size is estimated at 100-150 million users (Sandner, 2019). However, with increasing adoption of cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology, this number is expected to be larger upon launch. 

**Diem Technology**

  Diem’s digital payment system uses an open-source blockchain and comprises of their own Diem cryptocurrency or ‘Diem Coin’. At a high level, blockchain  technology “can safely store transaction records on a peer-to-peer network instead of storing them in a single location. Independent servers around the world, called nodes, make up the network that operates the blockchain”. The Diem Blockchain has been built from the ground up, using a new programming language called “Move”. Move is designed to be highly secure and to comply with regulatory requirements. With the foundation of the Libra blockchain in place, the Diem Coins will be backed by a financial reserve of assets made up of cash or cash equivalents and very short-term government securities”. Diem coins will enable users who hold the coin to purchase everyday goods and services, transfer coins to other users, or convert the Diem coins into local currency, all of which work to enable efficient cross-border settlements (Diem, 2020). 

## Landscape

**The History of Blockchain: Trends and Innovations in the Last Decade**

  Blockchain technology has seen major growth and adoption in the last decade. An article in the Harvard Business Review - A Brief History of Blockchain - does a fantastic job of summing up five of the latest innovations associated with blockchain in the last ten years. The first and most notable blockchain innovation was the creation of Bitcoin. Despite a ton of market volatility in the last few years, today the market cap of Bitcoin hovers around USD $350 billion (Gupta, 2017). 

   A second innovation, which comes as a surprise to those who are not in the industry, is that blockchain can be used for a variety of other needs, not just for cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. Applications of blockchain beyond cryptocurrency include “proof-of-location, healthcare, and decentralized voting” (Ali et al. 2018). These are made possible given given the nature of how blockchain actually works; with the use of cryptographic puzzles, proof-of-work and a digital ledger of transactions that is considered to be immutable (Ali et al., 2018). 

Three additional innovations include:

- the development of smart contracts which allow financial instruments, like loans or bonds to be represented on the blockchain
- The concept of a “proof of stake” which would streamline the existing “proof of work” model; moving away from vast data centres and large amounts of computing power, to be replaced by complex financial instruments 
- And finally, simplifying the transaction validation process (known as ‘blockchain scaling’) that eliminates the need to have all computers in the network processing transactions, but rather focusing on the actual number of computers necessary to process transactions. This would be a a time saver as the existing process is slow.

**Diem's Competitors** 

![alt text](https://public.bnbstatic.com/static/images/common/ogImage.jpg)

In anticipation of Diem’s launch in January 2021, Diem already faces a lot of competition. One major competitor is Binance - the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchange, that was founded in 2017. Binance is a direct competitor of Diem as it has their own coin offering, the BNB (Binance Coin), a stablecoin that is pegged to the British Pound, and its own blockchain, Binance Chain(Kharif, 2020). 


A second competitor is Metallicus Inc., with its product called Metal Pay. Metal Pay is a digital wallet that with its own coin offering, the MTL coin, and also operates on a blockchain (DeCambre 2019). 

![alt text](https://www.ccn.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/Erik-Finman-unveils-bitcoin-Libra-Killer-Metal-Pay.jpg)

Despite its competition, the advantage that Diem offers is governance of money, backed by reputable large organizations, central banks and academic institutions, which increases trust in the company, unless you are of course ‘anti-government’. 

## Results

**Diem's Projected Business Impact**

   The business impacts of Diem remain to be seen. Leading up to its launch, there have been numerous discussions held with various key stakeholders including regulators, central banks, and elected officials(diem.com, 2020). Some controversial discussion points that may impact how widely it is adopted are surrounding how the Diem coin may be trying to compete with fiat currency, the role the central banks play in the system, the overall security of its system on a blockchain, and whether or not its product and service offerings are fully compliant with regulations. However, as a Facebook-affiliated project and given that there are currently 2.7 billion active users on Facebook according to statista.com, the potential network reach of Diem could be significant and would dramatically change the payments industry on a truly global scale (Peoples, 2019). This, combined with opening up the financial system to the 1.7 billion who currently don’t have access will fundamentally change how the world uses money. 

   According to a report backed by the World Bank, “broadening access to financial services through digital means can unlock productivity and investment, reduce poverty, empower women, and help build stronger institutions with less corruption—all while providing a profitable, sustainable business opportunity for financial service providers. The benefits for individuals, businesses, and governments can transform the economic prospects of emerging economies” (Manyika et al.,2016).

**Measuring Blockchain Success**

Existing companies that are a part of the blockchain and cryptocurrency domain measure success by looking at the following:

- cost per transaction
- time per transaction 
- value of cryptocurrency asset
- number of active users
